The Essays of Warren Buffett: Lessons for Corporate America, Fourth Edition
Lawrence A. Cunningham and Warren E. Buffett

Samuel Johnson's horse: “A horse that can count to ten is a remarkable horse—not a remarkable mathematician.” Likewise, a textile company that allocates capital brilliantly within its industry is a remarkable textile company—
LOCATION: 1175

but not a remarkable business.
LOCATION: 1177

Managers with limited areas of responsibility should have incentives that pay off in relation to results under their control.
LOCATION: 1433

Only those with overall responsibility for the team should have their rewards tied to its results.
LOCATION: 1435

Except in highly unusual cases, owners are not well served by the sale of part of their business at a bargain price—
LOCATION: 1441

“If it ain't broke, don't fix it” is preferable to “purity at any price”.
LOCATION: 1447

The second major category of investments involves assets that will never produce anything, but that are purchased in the buyer's hope that someone else—who also knows that the assets will be forever unproductive—will pay more for them in the future.
LOCATION: 2552

The second disadvantage of the dividend approach is of equal importance: The tax consequences for all taxpaying shareholders are inferior—usually far inferior—to those under the sell-off program.
LOCATION: 3944

We continually look for ways to employ large sums in each area. (But we try to avoid small commitments—“If something's not worth doing at all, it's not worth doing well”.)
LOCATION: 4006

“Every Napoleon meets his Watergate.”
LOCATION: 5643

We are limited, of course, to businesses whose economic prospects we can evaluate.
LOCATION: 5676

On top of that, we can profitably scale to a far larger size than the many businesses that are constrained by the limited potential of the single industry in which they operate.
LOCATION: 5678

Frequently, the best decision is to do nothing. There are worse things in life than having a prosperous business that one understands well. But sitting tight is seldom recommended by Wall Street. (Don't ask the barber whether you need a haircut.)
LOCATION: 5681

For some years, these purchasers accurately called themselves “leveraged buyout firms.” When that term got a bad name in the early 1990s—remember RJR and Barbarians at the Gate?—these buyers hastily relabeled themselves “private-equity.”
LOCATION: 5689

Our companies are worth more as part of Berkshire than as separate entities. One reason is our ability to move funds between businesses or into new ventures instantly and without tax.
LOCATION: 5702

The reason for our conservatism, which may impress some people as extreme, is that it is entirely predictable that people will occasionally panic, but not at all predictable
LOCATION: 5778

when this will happen.
LOCATION: 5779

Eventually—probably between ten and twenty years from now—Berkshire's earnings and capital resources will reach a level that will not allow management to intelligently reinvest all of the company's earnings.
LOCATION: 5795

Although our form is corporate, our attitude is partnership.
LOCATION: 5801

Why did Berkshire under Buffett do so well? Only four large factors occur to me: the constructive peculiarities of Buffett; the constructive peculiarities of the Berkshire system; good luck, and the weirdly intense, contagious devotion of some shareholders and other admirers, including some in the press. I believe all four factors were present and helpful. But the heavy freight was carried by the constructive peculiarities, the weird devotion, and their interactions.
LOCATION: 5891

winning method of the famous basketball coach, John Wooden,
LOCATION: 5896

Berkshire's ambitions were unreasonably extreme and, even so, it got what it wanted.
LOCATION: 5906

Ajit Jain created out of nothing an immense reinsurance business that produced both a huge “float” and a large underwriting gain. All of GEICO came into Berkshire, followed by a quadrupling of GEICO's market share.
LOCATION: 5912

A fat wallet is the enemy of superior investment results.
LOCATION: 5947

“getting paid for home runs other fellows hit.”
LOCATION: 5964

Humans age at greatly varying rates—but sooner or later their talents and vigor decline. Some managers remain effective well into their 80s and others noticeably fade in their 60s. When their abilities ebb, so usually do their powers of self-assessment. Someone else often needs to blow the whistle.
LOCATION: 5972

Those people favoring perpetual foundations argue that in the future there will most certainly be large and important societal problems that philanthropy will need to address. I agree. But there will then also be many super-rich individuals and families whose wealth will exceed that of today's Americans and to whom philanthropic organizations can make their case for funding. These funders can then judge first-hand which operations have both
LOCATION: 5991
