Thinking Strategically: The Competitive Edge in Business, Politics, and Everyday Life (Norton Paperback)
Avinash K. Dixit and Barry J. Nalebuff

To develop this idea of deterrence further, we invite you to look at the “Three-Way Duel” in the collection of case studies at the end of the book. Three antagonists, each with a different level of ability, have to decide whom they should attack. You may find the answer surprising.
LOCATION: 737

Suppose each VCR costs $150 wholesale, and for the moment both Crazy Eddie and Newmark & Lewis are selling it for $300. Crazy Eddie is contemplating a sneaky cut to $275. Without the beat-the-rival promise, Crazy Eddie would hope that his lower price would attract some of the customers who would otherwise have gone to his rival—say, because they lived nearer to a Newmark & Lewis outlet, or had bought from them before. Unfortunately for Crazy Eddie, his price cut has the reverse effect. With the Newmark & Lewis price guarantee, these people are now tempted just to walk over to Newmark & Lewis and buy the VCR for $300 and then claim a $50 rebate. This is just as if Newmark & Lewis had reduced its price to $250, automatically undercutting Crazy Eddie. But of course Newmark & Lewis would prefer not to give away the fifty dollars. Its response will be to lower the price to $275. In any event, Crazy Eddie is worse off than where he started. So why bother? The price stays at $300.
LOCATION: 1403

Axelrod argues that tit-for-tat embodies four principles that should be evident in any effective strategy: clarity, niceness, provocability, and forgivingness.
LOCATION: 1450

One of the impressive features about tit-for-tat is that it did so well overall even though it did not (nor could it) beat any one of its rivals in a head-on competition.
LOCATION: 1459

In spite of all this, we believe that tit-for-tat is a flawed strategy. The slightest possibility of misperceptions results in a complete breakdown in the success of tit-for-tat. This flaw was not apparent in the artificial setting of a computer tournament, because misperceptions did not arise. But when tit-for-tat is applied to real-world problems, misperceptions cannot be avoided and the result can be disastrous.
LOCATION: 1465

Once the probability of misunderstanding reaches fifty percent there is no hope for achieving any cooperation in the prisoners’ dilemma. You should always defect.
LOCATION: 1520

No matter what strategy you choose, you cannot have any effect on what your partner sees.
LOCATION: 1524

men are likely to forget in the heat of the action where their best interest lies and let their emotions carry them away.”5
LOCATION: 2844

The point of these stories is that the free market doesn’t always get it right. There are two fundamental problems. One is that history matters.
LOCATION: 3391

The move from one equilibrium to a better one can be most effectively accomplished via a short and intense campaign.
LOCATION: 3399

The other general problem with laissez faire is that so much of what matters in life takes place outside the economic marketplace.
LOCATION: 3401

THE THREE-WAY DUEL
LOCATION: 4466

Thus, your chances of survival depend on not only your own ability but also whom you threaten. A weak player who threatens no one may end up surviving if the stronger players kill each other off.
LOCATION: 4486

To ensure that the Sea Shells proposal passes, start at the end and make sure that the final two voters have an incentive to vote for the proposal. This will be enough to pass the resolution, since Sea Shells starts the process with a first yes vote.
LOCATION: 4517

The first two Piper’s board members are now in a true pickle. They can predict that even if they both vote no, the last two will go against them and the proposal will pass. Given that they can’t stop it from passing, it is better to go along and get something. This case demonstrates the power of backward reasoning. Of course it helps to be devious too.
LOCATION: 4536

The firm that can hang on the longest can force out its more profitable rival as soon as duopoly profits begin to turn negative.
LOCATION: 4640

Remember that size is not always an advantage: in judo and here in exit strategies, the trick is to use your rival’s bigger size and consequently inflexibility against him.
LOCATION: 4656
