The Most Important Thing Illuminated: Uncommon Sense for the Thoughtful Investor (Columbia Business School Publishing)
Howard Marks, Paul Johnson, and Bruce Greenwald

My answer is simple: an effective investment philosophy, developed and honed over more than four decades and implemented conscientiously by highly skilled individuals who share culture and values.
LOCATION: 133

Importantly, a philosophy like mine comes from going through life with your eyes open. You must be aware of what’s taking place in the world and of what results those events lead to.
LOCATION: 142

“Experience is what you got when you didn’t get what you wanted.”
LOCATION: 151

I’m convinced that no idea can be any better than the action taken on it, and that’s especially true in the world of investing.
LOCATION: 186

Because investing is at least as much art as it is science, it’s never my goal—in this book or elsewhere—to suggest it can be routinized. In fact, one of the things I most want to emphasize is how essential it is that one’s investment approach be intuitive and adaptive rather than be fixed and mechanistic.
LOCATION: 215

Counting on luck isn’t much of a plan, so you’d better concentrate on insight. In basketball they say, “You can’t coach height,”
LOCATION: 231

But in investing, where these things count for less, it calls for more perceptive thinking … at what I call the second level.
LOCATION: 240

You must be more right than others … which by definition means your thinking has to be different.
LOCATION: 249

One of the great sayings about poker is that “in every game there’s a fish. If you’ve played for 45 minutes and haven’t figured out who the fish is, then it’s you.” The
LOCATION: 487

The key turning point in my investment management career came when I concluded that because the notion of market efficiency has relevance, I should limit my efforts to relatively inefficient markets where hard work and skill
LOCATION: 530

would pay off best.
LOCATION: 531

Stocks with smaller capitalization or stocks of companies going through extraordinary events come to mind.
LOCATION: 534

“Isn’t that a $10 bill lying on the ground?” asks the student. “No, it can’t be a $10 bill,” answers the professor. “If it were, someone would have picked it up by now.” The professor walks away, and the student picks it up and has a beer.
LOCATION: 544

“Buy low; sell high.”
LOCATION: 557

Without accurate estimates, you’ll be as likely to overpay as to underpay.
LOCATION: 676

“Being too far ahead of your time is indistinguishable from being wrong.”
LOCATION: 699

An accurate opinion on valuation, loosely held, will be of limited help. An incorrect opinion on valuation, strongly held, is far worse. This one statement shows how hard it is to get it all right.
LOCATION: 730

And there are few assets so bad that they can’t be a good investment when bought cheap enough.
LOCATION: 749
