No One Understands You and What to Do About It
Heidi Grant  Halvorson Ph.D

Our collective research shows that perceivers are, without a doubt, prone to error. These kinds of errors are, however, predictable—perception is governed by rules and biases
LOCATION: 121

like everyone else—are very likely operating under two very flawed assumptions: first, that other people see you objectively as you are, and, second, that other people see you as you see yourself.
LOCATION: 155

Life is simply easier and more rewarding when people “get you” and provide you with the opportunities and support that are a good fit for you.
LOCATION: 205

To borrow a bit from Tolstoy, it would appear that while all your fans see you similarly, the haters each hate you in their own, unique way.
LOCATION: 242

and why our relationships—the keys to our ultimate success and happiness—can be so stressful.
LOCATION: 270

when other people look at you, they see what they expect to see. Psychologists call this confirmation bias.
LOCATION: 309

It’s not impossible to change these initial impressions (more on that later), but it is really difficult.
LOCATION: 329

The primacy effect is also almost entirely responsible for the fact that sometimes, we can do no wrong in someone else’s eyes, while at other times, we seem to be screwed no matter what we do—or as I like to call it, The Ballad of Ben Stiller in Every Ben Stiller Movie.
LOCATION: 338

Compared with unbiased observers (i.e., strangers), ratings of the friend’s behavior were dramatically skewed, almost uniformly reflecting their prior opinion of the friend, rather than the actual behavior displayed.
LOCATION: 358

The reality is, stereotypes can be used to your advantage. And on some level we understand this intuitively, when we dress for success or try to fit in.
LOCATION: 407

The tendency to assume that someone possesses other positive qualities from the presence of a single, powerful positive quality is called the halo effect.
LOCATION: 438

as
LOCATION: 2200
