Skin in the Game: Hidden Asymmetries in Daily Life
Nassim Nicholas  Taleb

“Conduct yourself toward your parents as you would have your children conduct themselves toward you.”
LOCATION: 575

You do not want to win an argument. You want to win.
LOCATION: 643

Because what matters in life isn’t how frequently one is “right” about outcomes, but how much one makes when one is right.
LOCATION: 661

Many kids would learn to love mathematics if they had some investment in it, and, more crucially, they would build an instinct to spot its misapplications.
LOCATION: 775

And I will keep mentioning that I have no other definition of success than leading an honorable life.
LOCATION: 803

Yossi Vardi, to have no assistant. The mere presence of an assistant suspends your natural filtering—and its absence forces you to do only things you enjoy, and progressively steer your life that way. (By
LOCATION: 841

“The Logic of Risk Taking,”
LOCATION: 899

So I accidentally discovered a way to change the behavior of unethical and abusive persons without verbal threat. Take their pictures. Just
LOCATION: 3003

Of course, I destroyed their pictures. But I never thought handhelds could be such a weapon.
LOCATION: 3015

methods originate with Roman legal reasoning.
LOCATION: 3095

Learning from the Russian school of probability makes one conscious of the need to think in terms of one-sided inequalities: what is absent from the data should be taken into account—absence of Black Swans in the record doesn’t mean these were not there.
LOCATION: 3306

“to make money you must first survive”—skin
LOCATION: 3554

the cognitive scientist and polymath Herb Simon, who pioneered artificial intelligence; the psychologist Gerd Gigerenzer; and the mathematician, logician, and decision theorist Ken Binmore, who spent his life formulating the logical foundations of rationality.
LOCATION: 3567

The only definition of rationality that I’ve found that is practically, empirically, and mathematically rigorous is the following: what is rational is that which allows for survival.
LOCATION: 3636

Not everything that happens happens for a reason, but everything that survives survives for a reason.
LOCATION: 3662

Rationality is risk management, period.
LOCATION: 3663

familiar principle that “in order to succeed, you must first survive.”
LOCATION: 3691

If medicine is progressively improving your life expectancy, you need to be even more paranoid. Think dynamically.
LOCATION: 3741

Risk and ruin are different tings.
LOCATION: 3820

The Chernoff bound can be explained as follows. The probability that the number of people who drown in their bathtubs in the United States doubles next year—assuming no changes in population or bathtubs—is one per several trillions lifetimes of the universe.
LOCATION: 3833

Finally: Rationality is avoidance of systemic ruin.
LOCATION: 3858
