Tao of Charlie Munger: A Compilation of Quotes from Berkshire Hathaway's Vice Chairman on Life, Business, and the Pursuit of Wealth With Commentary by David Clark
David Clark

Over the course of Charlie’s life he has increased his circle of competence to include the insurance business, banking, newspapers, television, candy companies, airlines, the toolmaking business, boot makers, underwear manufacturers, power companies, and investment banking.
LOCATION: 240

There must be some wisdom in the folk saying: ‘It’s the strong swimmers who drown.’ ”
LOCATION: 538

“When I came out to California, there was this playboy and he spent all his time drinking heavily and chasing movie stars. His banker called him in and said that he was very nervous about his behavior. He told his banker, ‘Let me tell you something: my municipal bonds don’t drink.’ ” –
LOCATION: 559

“You have to be very patient, you have to wait until something comes along, which, at the price you’re paying, is easy. That’s contrary to human nature, just to sit there all day long doing nothing, waiting. It’s easy for us, we have a lot of other things to do. But for an ordinary person, can you imagine just sitting for five years doing nothing? You don’t feel active, you don’t feel useful, so you do something stupid.”
LOCATION: 601

One of the hallmarks of Charlie and Warren’s investments in banks is that they always praise the management of the banks they invest in.
LOCATION: 670

And what is US bank exposure to this derivative risk? Consider this: JPMorgan Chase has $2 trillion in total assets and total risk exposure to derivatives of more than $52.9 trillion; Citibank has total assets of $1.3 trillion and total risk exposure to derivatives of more than $52 trillion; Bank of America has total assets of $1.6 trillion
LOCATION: 922

and total risk exposure to derivatives of $26.6 trillion; Goldman Sachs has total assets of $143 billion (that’s billion) and total risk exposure to derivative of $44.4 trillion (that’s trillion).
LOCATION: 924

There’s a saying in Indonesia: ‘What you’re calling corrupt is Asian family values.’ ”
LOCATION: 947

Charlie had the exact opposite experience with See’s Candies—the pots that hold the chocolate were fifty years old and still didn’t need replacing, and the product was the same year after year. The business required very little in capital expenditures, so it was possible to take money out of it every year to invest in other businesses.
LOCATION: 1091

“There’s no business like the shoe business.” That was true until Dexter Shoe, which manufactured its shoes in the United States, could no longer compete with foreign manufacturers that had access to cheaper labor.
LOCATION: 1099

“When we bought See’s Candy, we didn’t know the power of a good brand. Over time, we just discovered that we could raise prices 10% a year and no one cared. Learning that changed Berkshire. It was really important.”
LOCATION: 1106

But some brand-name products own a piece of consumers’ minds and don’t have any direct competition.
LOCATION: 1111

own a piece of consumers’ minds and is able to raise prices to keep up with inflation.
LOCATION: 1121

betting on the quality of a business is better than betting on the quality of management . . .
LOCATION: 1152

Charlie has learned that leverage and envy are a lethal combination.
LOCATION: 1193

Carl von Clausewitz, who wrote that battle “is a continuous interaction of opposites”
LOCATION: 1210

Nebraska Furniture Mart’s founder, Mrs. B., who, in response to a question about having a business plan, replied in her thick Russian accent, “Yeah, sell cheap and tell the truth.” She was a business genius.
LOCATION: 1219

Charlie and Warren learned with the purchase of Nebraska Furniture Mart that if the dominant player is large enough and well enough entrenched with its customer base, the cost of entry into its market is much too high for potential competitors.
LOCATION: 1271

Lee Kuan Yew, who was the Warren Buffett of Singapore.”
LOCATION: 1311

The key to it all was providing an honest, effective, and efficient government to provide businesses with the stable, uncorrupt, working environment they needed to grow and prosper.
LOCATION: 1321

Lee’s book From Third World to First: The Singapore Story is well worth a read.
LOCATION: 1324

He has often said that he is a much better investor at ninety than he was at fifty, a fact he attributes to the compounding effect of knowledge.
LOCATION: 1338

If you understand psychology, you can grasp how a product such as Coca-Cola can own a piece of consumers’ minds—which makes it a candidate for a long-term investment.
LOCATION: 1351

“Three rules for a career: (1) Don’t sell anything you wouldn’t buy yourself; (2) Don’t work for anyone you don’t respect and admire; and (3) Work only with people you enjoy.”
LOCATION: 1363

From Charlie’s perspective the best and brightest young minds should be engineering solutions to solve the world’s problems, not squandering their intellects on finding better ways to win a game of chance in a Wall Street casino.
LOCATION: 1386

“I like people admitting they were complete stupid horses’ asses. I know I’ll perform better if I rub my nose in my mistakes. This is a wonderful trick to learn.”
LOCATION: 1390

“Extreme specialization is the way to succeed. Most people are way better off specializing than trying to understand the world.”
LOCATION: 1408

It’s specialists who make the big bucks—everyone else, the little bucks.
LOCATION: 1415

In the world of business and investing it is best to keep up with new developments and review our best-loved ideas every year, just to make sure that in thinking we are right, we don’t get it wrong.
LOCATION: 1445

“We all are learning, modifying, or destroying ideas all the time. Rapid destruction of your ideas when the time is right is one of the most valuable qualities you can acquire. You must force yourself to consider arguments on the other side.”
LOCATION: 1483

Why? Mostly because of the highly leveraged banking system. Leverage makes for huge gains as things move up but creates equally huge losses when fortunes reverse.
LOCATION: 1649

the only thing anyone can be certain of is that the power of positive thinking has no place in investment decisions.
LOCATION: 1650

It is also one of the oddities of the investment game that the older we get and the more we learn, the better investor we become.
LOCATION: 1658

Charlie believes that if you don’t have time to think about something deeply, you are giving your competitors, who are thinking deeply, a great advantage over you.
LOCATION: 1673

The corporate culture at Berkshire is that if you can’t trust someone, you really shouldn’t be doing business with him or her.
LOCATION: 1696

In Charlie’s investment life each and every loss has been a learning lesson. If he had never experienced troubles with a business in very competitive industries—textiles, shoes, retail clothing, and airlines—he might never have gained the insight into the wonders of owning a business that had a consumer monopoly such as Coca-Cola or See’s Candies.
LOCATION: 1710

Thomas Edison once said, “I failed my way to success.”
LOCATION: 1714

“It’s bad to have an opinion you’re proud of if you can’t state the arguments for the other side better than your opponents. This is a great mental discipline.” –
LOCATION: 1736
