University of Berkshire Hathaway: 30 Years of Lessons Learned from Warren Buffett & Charlie Munger at the Annual Shareholders Meeting
Daniel Pecaut and Corey Wrenn

on hand to answer your questions. It is
LOCATION: 153

greatest
LOCATION: 166

For every $1 of equity at Berkshire, over time there has been roughly another 50 cents or so in float. By investing $1.50 for every $1 of capital over the years, Berkshire has leveraged its returns. A significant portion of Berkshire’s long-term outperformance can be attributed to Buffett and Munger’s ability to execute on this brilliant insight. That’s not something you or I can go out and do.
LOCATION: 203

This view underestimates or ignores 1) Berkshire’s insurance companies’ impressive generation of low-cost float, 2) Berkshire’s impressive and growing stable of cash-generating operating businesses, and 3) Berkshire’s ability to orchestrate value-enhancing deals.
LOCATION: 227

These companies will all keep going without them. In doing this, they have intentionally created Berkshire to extend their success past their own lifespans.
LOCATION: 239

Buffett said to determine the IBV of an asset, simply take the present value of the net cash flows from here to eternity, based on current bond rates.
LOCATION: 614

what he wants are “idiot-proof” businesses.
LOCATION: 672

When asked why they don’t, Munger replied that for business schools to do so would mean calling into question the flawed morals and performance of America’s largest corporations, the same corporations that hire many of the business schools’ students.
LOCATION: 681

“Do what you enjoy the most. Work for people you admire. You can’t miss if you do that.”
LOCATION: 739

He suggests adopting the mindset of a basketball coach who, in a crowd of people, will immediately begin talking to the seven-footers. You only need one good player to make a difference.
LOCATION: 747

There should be no cap (you simply cannot overpay for truly great performance). Longevity is irrelevant. Relate compensation directly to the performance of the business. (Yardsticks will vary depending on the business and the amount of capital employed).
LOCATION: 792

Buffett noted that every corporate employee has to answer to someone else, except for the president. Too often the CEO also serves as chairman of the board. Given that the chairman calls the board meetings and sets the agenda, it is difficult for the board to evaluate the CEO properly.
LOCATION: 798

Buffett’s idea – one that he has publicly suggested at Salomon Brothers – is a non-executive chairman. Such a person could see to it that the CEO is properly evaluated and monitored.
LOCATION: 801

When Buffett graduated from Columbia University in the 1950s, both his teacher, Benjamin Graham, and his father told him that it was not a good time to get into the securities business. The Dow had just surpassed the 200 mark. Buffett had $10,000 at the time. If he had waited, he claims he would still have $10,000.
LOCATION: 821

Munger put it this way: “We’re predicting how people will swim against the current. We’re not predicting the current itself.”
LOCATION: 823

Buffett commented that the distinction between the growth and value styles of investing is nonsense.
LOCATION: 828

Munger observed that studying airlines teaches you about competition in a high fixed-cost business with a fungible commodity.
LOCATION: 837

Buffett also noted that book value is seldom meaningful in analyzing the value of a business. Book value simply records what was put into the business. The key to calculating value is determining what will come out of the business.
LOCATION: 838

Munger described the last 12 years as hog heaven and stated that future returns will not be as high – the investment money of the world can only grow so fast.
LOCATION: 858

“There’s no way investment returns can match what has been achieved.”
LOCATION: 860

An interesting point – Berkshire’s position in U.K.-based Guinness is unhedged. Buffett claimed that currency hedging would be not only expensive and time-consuming but unnecessary as well since Guinness itself already earns money in many different currencies. In the long run, the currency factors should wash out.(31)
LOCATION: 875

the rational value of any economic asset equals the discounted present value of all future cash flows
LOCATION: 882

True investing is really more like betting against a parimutuel system, trying to find a 2-to-1 shot that pays 3 to 1. Value investing is looking for a “mispriced gamble.”
LOCATION: 887

The danger of relying on historical statistics or formulas is that you end up betting on a 14-year-old horse with a great record but is now ready for the glue factory.
LOCATION: 889

Munger put it even more succinctly, noting that few humans have an edge if they try to follow 40 companies or more (such as yours truly). Eight or 10 in a lifetime, or even one, will get you your return.
LOCATION: 936

Too many insurers make the mistake of underwriting based on experience rather than exposure.
LOCATION: 960

“You don’t find out who’s been swimming naked until the tide goes out.”
LOCATION: 975

performance of management: 1) How well do they run the business? and 2) How well do they treat the owners?
LOCATION: 981

Buffett explained that one of his jobs is to identify and keep good managers.
LOCATION: 987

Buffett tries to keep it fun and interesting, to compensate them fairly based on performance and to leave them alone to do what they do best. Munger observed that the concept of treating the other fellow as if the roles were reversed was a sound one.
LOCATION: 989

“To think about what will happen versus when is a far more efficient way to behave.”
LOCATION: 1002

competing buyers operating with OPM (other people’s money) tend to pay more optimistic prices.
LOCATION: 1005

Buffett defined risk as “the possibility of harm or injury.”
LOCATION: 1019

Buffett sees the use of beta as nonsense, emphatically stating, “Volatility is no measure of risk to us.”
LOCATION: 1021

Buffett said that while he is risk averse, we would be surprised at how much he might put on a seven-to-five flip. “We go where the probabilities are good.”
LOCATION: 1025

He emphasized that it is judgment that has utility in measuring price and value. What is needed is not quick information, but good information.
LOCATION: 1035

The need for independent thinking has long been a theme at Berkshire meetings. This year, Buffett cautioned that you cannot let the market think for you – “you cannot get rich with a weathervane.”
LOCATION: 1039

Quoting Woody Allen, “The advantage of being bisexual is you’ve doubled your chances for a date on Saturday night.”
LOCATION: 1064

He went so far as to say that if he could own only one business, it would probably be a newspaper in a one-newspaper town.
LOCATION: 1089

He dropped a hint saying the discussion of Berkshire’s $3 billion of float was the most important page in the report.
LOCATION: 1097

Regarding Berkshire, Munger noted that few companies have ever been constructed that require so little intelligence to maintain.
LOCATION: 1106

Berkshire has built enduring advantage in the highly competitive catastrophe insurance market. Berkshire has $13 billion of equity. Its largest competitors have less than $1 billion.
LOCATION: 1127

On a general note, Buffett said, when accounting appears confusing, avoid the company. The confusion may well be intentional and reveal the character of the management.
LOCATION: 1133

Buffett noted that debt is meaningless without looking at the ability to pay.
LOCATION: 1135

Buffett offered a beautiful explanation of float, comparing it to bank deposits.
LOCATION: 1204

Buffett cautioned that ordinary insurance is not a good business and that float, per se, is not a blessing.
LOCATION: 1210

To make it work, the insurance company must be run right, ideally with competitive advantages and the ability to maximize
LOCATION: 1210

If you can get float cheap and in increasing quantities, float becomes a very important asset – something even more important than Buffett could have guessed in 1967.
LOCATION: 1211

Munger concluded that one of Buffett’s tricks is that he keeps learning.
LOCATION: 1213

He noted that Berkshire’s collection of businesses has been lovingly put together so as not to require continuous intellect at headquarters.
LOCATION: 1217

Buffett claimed that three wonderful businesses is more than you need in this life and would serve you much better than 100 average businesses.
LOCATION: 1230

The key according to Buffett is “share of mind.” What place will Disney have in the minds of billions of children?
LOCATION: 1246

Buffett said the mindset of owning wonderful companies has worked far better than he would have predicted 20 years ago.
LOCATION: 1253

Buffett was emphatic in saying that they love focused management. Coca-Cola and Gillette both lost their focus along the way. When they regained their focus, it added billions of dollars to shareholder wealth. GEICO lost its focus in the early 1970s and nearly went out of business.
LOCATION: 1255

Buffett concluded that there is a very easy way to think like a shareholder: Become one.
LOCATION: 1273

Buffett said it would not surprise him in the least if stocks averaged a 4% return over the next 10 years.(39)
LOCATION: 1298

At 15% a year, stock returns are growing far faster than the economy itself. Sooner or later, something has to happen.
LOCATION: 1310

The first involves capital structure. A company with a ton of debt could be a candidate for foreclosure.
LOCATION: 1322

The second relates to the nature of the business and its capital requirements. With commercial airlines, for example, tons of capital is required upfront, and competition is intense.
LOCATION: 1323

A third risk occurs with commodity businesses. Unless you’re the low-cost producer, these are poor businesses to own.
LOCATION: 1325

The key is to remember that the market exists to serve you, not instruct you. Volatility is a huge plus to real investors.
LOCATION: 1330

Buffett noted one of his rules is understanding the business, to be able to have a pretty good idea where it will be in 10 years.
LOCATION: 1332

and good at valuing businesses (in a system that pays for that like crazy).
LOCATION: 1351

Munger noted people underrate the importance of a few big ideas. Filters work really well because they are so simple.
LOCATION: 1357

“Life is a whole series of opportunity costs.”
LOCATION: 1361

Stick to those who take their promises seriously.
LOCATION: 1363

Despite the excess, Buffett said the real sin is mediocre management. That is what costs the shareholders money. It is almost impossible to overpay for good management.
LOCATION: 1373

The right manager can have an absolutely huge impact. Find people with brains, energy and integrity, and you can own the world.
LOCATION: 1376

“Insurance will be a very good and very big business for us.”
LOCATION: 1384

Munger noted that Buffett is the most rational person he has ever known and that Buffett’s ability to learn has been essential to the success of Berkshire. For example, the notion of buying only understandable, predictable businesses came from painful lessons learned after owning third-level department stores and manufacturers of pumps and windmills.
LOCATION: 1390

Munger claimed that See’s Candy taught them the virtues of a franchise-type business. Seeing how See’s played out in the marketplace led directly to their bold purchase of Coca-Cola shares in 1988.
LOCATION: 1393

“You can observe a lot just by looking.”
LOCATION: 1402

This is not simply Buffett’s biggest deal – it is his biggest deal by a factor of 10. The $22 billion transaction amounts to 60% of Berkshire’s shareholder equity of $34.8 billion (as of March 31, 1998). This is a “bet the company” deal.
LOCATION: 1437

Buffett has long said he would never issue stock unless he received more than fair value in return.
LOCATION: 1445

In a capitalist society, everyone is watching you. Competition is fierce. The $3 billion market cap company is rare. He concluded, “You want to think about the math of it.”
LOCATION: 1586

As Peter Lynch has said, “Find a business any idiot could run because eventually one will.”
LOCATION: 1623

between identifying a growth industry and minting money.
LOCATION: 1629

Munger noted that high profits on capital often rely on information inefficiencies.
LOCATION: 1713

A really efficient auction system will remove such inefficiencies as it enables the buyer to find the low price.
LOCATION: 1713

If someone else is getting rich, so what? Someone else will always be doing better.
LOCATION: 1722

The real key is to know what you really want to avoid and give those things a wide berth (such as a bad marriage, an early death, and so on).
LOCATION: 1724

In it, Buffett suggests that expectations of a 6% annual return in stocks over the next 17 years would be rational.
LOCATION: 1740

By learning the primary models in each major discipline (such as compound interest and probability in math and break-points and back-up systems in engineering) and applying all of them, he asserts that people will make better decisions.
LOCATION: 1752

Munger recommended “effective rationality” as a lifelong pursuit.
LOCATION: 1760

As Munger put it, “Basically, we’re a hedgehog that knows one big thing. If you generate float at 3% per annum and buy businesses that earn 13% per annum with the proceeds of that float, we have figured out that’s a pretty good position to be in.”
LOCATION: 1779

Buffett concluded that stocks are a perfectly decent way to make 6% or 7% a year over the next 15 to 20 years. But
LOCATION: 1787

Munger observed that the most extreme mistakes in Berkshire’s history show up as opportunity costs.
LOCATION: 1817

Buffett claimed blown opportunities have cost Berkshire’s shareholders “billions and billions and billions of dollars.”
LOCATION: 1819

with the power of compounding, blown opportunities can cost an awesome amount of money.
LOCATION: 1820

An error is when it’s something they understand, but then they don’t act on it in a big way.
LOCATION: 1826

Very little real wealth has been created.
LOCATION: 1848

were once in the grocery delivery business, a “terrible business.”
LOCATION: 1850

there will always be a battle between brands and retailers.
LOCATION: 1856

Buffett asserted that the very best investment you can make is in yourself.
LOCATION: 1883

A superior cost structure is often fundamental to a business’ sustainable advantage.
LOCATION: 1890

He said he doesn’t really care whether they’re buying into raw-material-intensive businesses, people-intensive businesses or capital-intensive businesses. The key is to understand a company’s costs and why it’s got a sustainable edge against its competitors.
LOCATION: 1897

Since airline travel is pretty much a commodity business, costs are the key factors. The biggest cost is labor.
LOCATION: 1902

In airlines, as with many other industries in a capitalistic society, business will eventually gravitate to the low-cost player.
LOCATION: 1907

In a fascinating real-life study in game theory, Buffett noted that sometimes the weaker you are, the stronger your bargaining position may be.
LOCATION: 1914

Buffett noted that Berkshire is a preferred purchaser for many companies because they know the deal will not have any financing difficulties.(50)
LOCATION: 1931

Sellers also know Berkshire’s ownership structure is stable and that they will be able to run their businesses as before.
LOCATION: 1934

While the investment arena is extremely competitive, Buffett guaranteed that sometime in the next 20 years, people will do something exceptionally stupid in equity markets. The question for Berkshire is, will it be in a position to take advantage of it when the time comes.
LOCATION: 1937

Buffett added that there is no master plan. They will just keep allocating capital as rationally as they can.
LOCATION: 1939

it’s an absolutely sure thing Berkshire’s annual percentage rate of progress will go way down from what it has been in the past.
LOCATION: 1941

Imagine a genie comes to a 17 year old and offers to get him any car he wants. However, there is one catch – whatever car he chooses he must make it last a lifetime.
LOCATION: 1982

In the same way, Buffett continued, we each receive one body and one mind for a lifetime. You cannot repair them at age 60. You must maintain them.
LOCATION: 1984

Munger noted that enormously talented people drift into fraud. The culture carries them there.
LOCATION: 2018

In a similar vein, Munger noted that the fraud group percentage is high for those who talk “EBIDTA.”(53)
LOCATION: 2030

As an example, Buffett chided telecom companies that talk about “cash flow” when they are spending every dime they get. It isn’t cash flow if it’s all flowing out.
LOCATION: 2034

Munger noted that one of the great inventions of all time was double-entry bookkeeping by an Italian monk.
LOCATION: 2055

He called Enron one of the most disgusting examples of a business culture gone wrong.
LOCATION: 2057

Buffett explained that Fruit of the Loom was victimized by too much debt and poor management.
LOCATION: 2073

Berkshire’s bankruptcy bid for Fruit of the Loom was contingent on retired CEO John Holland returning to run the company. Holland agreed, and the deal was done. Buffett considers Holland and the brand as Fruit’s key assets.
LOCATION: 2074

In a similar vein, Buffett has frequently used his “waiting for the fat pitch” baseball analogy to describe Berkshire’s asset allocation approach.
LOCATION: 2088

Munger noted many corporations have large M&A departments spending huge amounts of time to do huge amounts of due diligence. Yet at least two-thirds of acquisitions are duds.
LOCATION: 2097

In contrast, Munger noted that Berkshire has done many great deals with no such time spent. They wait for the no-brainer, the fat pitch.
LOCATION: 2098

Buffett suggested it is helpful to list the qualities you would want in a friend and then seek to instill those qualities in yourself.
LOCATION: 2101

Munger interjected that they know very successful businessmen who do not have one true friend…and rightly so. “That’s no way to live a life,” he concluded.
LOCATION: 2104

He added that temperament is very important, especially a willingness to go away from the crowd.
LOCATION: 2109

He recommended realism in defining one’s circle of competence and discipline to stay within the circle.
LOCATION: 2110

He added that it helps to insulate yourself from popular opinions. You’re better off sitting and thinking.(56)
LOCATION: 2111

Berkshire can be seen as a collection of great businesses. Buffett’s favorite activity is adding to that collection.
LOCATION: 2140

Read lots of annual reports. Learn accounting by reading good business articles, especially those on accounting scandals. Try to know how the numbers are put together.
LOCATION: 2161

Management always obfuscates the facts for a reason.
LOCATION: 2163

Munger concluded that it takes years to integrate an understanding of accounting with life’s realities.
LOCATION: 2165

He cautioned, “There’s seldom one cockroach in the kitchen.”
LOCATION: 2180

Buffett also decried the use of EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) as if depreciation wasn’t a real expense.
LOCATION: 2181

Munger brought down the house with this teaching tool: “Everywhere you see ‘EBITDA’ in some analyst’s report, simply insert the words ‘bullshit earnings.’”
LOCATION: 2184

Buffett noted that inflation is the enemy of the investor.
LOCATION: 2186

He noted that GDP is often presented as a gross number. However, he emphasized that per capita GDP is far more meaningful.
LOCATION: 2192

If approved, Buffett could dividend out hundreds of millions of dollars to himself, effectively lowering his tax rate to less than 1%, while his secretary continued to pay taxes at a 30% rate. Such a differential could only breed resentment.(62)
LOCATION: 2203

A few large mistakes can completely undo years of wealth accumulation.
LOCATION: 2208

If you were in a rowboat in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean and just whispered a really dumb insurance price, insurance brokers would be swimming to you from shore...with their fins showing.
LOCATION: 2215

Buffett continued that when things go bad, all kinds of things correlate that you wouldn’t think of.
LOCATION: 2218

Buffett said this is deadly. If you are not aware of these correlations, you have an unrecognized concentration of risk.
LOCATION: 2218

Munger noted that one of the most remarkable qualities of his friend, Warren, is that he continues to get better with age and continues to keep learning.
LOCATION: 2224

Munger asserted that their ability to take constructive criticism has been a key factor in Berkshire’s success, that “Berkshire has been built on criticism.”
LOCATION: 2230

Regarding investment learning, Buffett recommended building your database so that you accumulate knowledge over a lifetime.
LOCATION: 2234

Buffett and Munger agreed that their biggest mistakes have been errors of omission rather than commission.
LOCATION: 2239

Buffett confessed to a tendency to stop buying shares of wonderful companies if the price moves up.
LOCATION: 2241

Munger claimed that he and Warren have been slow learners. The opportunity cost of the amount of money blown by headquarters at Berkshire has been “awesome.”
LOCATION: 2243

Munger asserted that all intelligent people base decisions on opportunity costs. The alternative returns available should weigh on whether you make a particular investment. It is freshman economics.
LOCATION: 2247

Buffett quipped, “Is there anybody we have forgotten to offend?”
LOCATION: 2250

“market is there to serve you, not to instruct you.”
LOCATION: 2252

They suggested that investing is more like parimutuel betting, where you need only be right a few times as long as you don’t take a big loss.
LOCATION: 2256

In contrast, Buffett said he only needs one or two good ideas a year.
LOCATION: 2259

In this way, Buffett seeks to emulate batting-great Ted Williams, who knew his success resided in waiting for the fat pitch.
LOCATION: 2259

Buffett joked, “That’s when I knew he was my kind of guy.”
LOCATION: 2292

He and Munger agreed that making money is no replacement for friendship and happiness.
LOCATION: 2301

As another line of defense, Munger suggested avoiding having “a lot of silly needs in life.”
LOCATION: 2327

Buffett exclaimed, “Charlie, we’re selling consumer goods in the other room! It’s OK to talk that way at home, but not here.” To which Munger replied, “I do talk that way at home, but it doesn’t do any good.”(68)
LOCATION: 2328

Buffett recommended an article by Durand written 30 years ago on the St. Petersburg Paradox for additional illumination.
LOCATION: 2370

However, if your estimated growth rate is greater than your discount rate, you get a value of
LOCATION: 2372

infinity.
LOCATION: 2373

Clearly, Munger noted, you need to then back off to more realistic numbers. While many analysts and companies persist in making 15% plus growth projections, Buffett observed that this year’s Fortune 500 includes a 50-year retrospective that shows only a very few companies were able to grow at even 10% or better over that period.
LOCATION: 2373

Buffett claimed that successful investing requires not extraordinary intellect but extraordinary discipline.
LOCATION: 2399

However, business does not require high math, and it may even be a disadvantage to know high math.
LOCATION: 2404

“When my mother sang me songs about compound interest, there was no need to go further.”
LOCATION: 2406

With low probability events, he asserted that people underestimate them if they haven’t occurred for a while and overestimate them if they occurred recently.
LOCATION: 2424

most people underestimate how important good habits are.
LOCATION: 2458

critical to “avoid dumb stuff” like going to the race track,
LOCATION: 2459

risking AIDS, experimenting
LOCATION: 2459

Buffett also recommended hanging around people better than you.
LOCATION: 2463

Munger added, “If that causes problems with your peers, the hell with them.”
LOCATION: 2463

story of the woman who turned 103 and was asked, “What do you like about being 103?” She responded, “No peer pressure.”
LOCATION: 2465

Buffett noted that he loves companies with untapped pricing power.
LOCATION: 2488

Buffett concluded that you can learn a lot about the durability of the economics of a business by observing price behavior.
LOCATION: 2491

Unlike a crowded theater where you can just leave your seat and run for the exit, in finance, you must find someone to take your seat. Someone must be on the other side of the transaction.
LOCATION: 2497

Buffett disagreed with many observers who see a soft landing. With a $618 billion trade deficit, how do such numbers correct “softly”? And if they don’t correct, the net international investment position will grow and compound.
LOCATION: 2503

While gold may be a refuge from a declining currency, Buffett observed that is true for any physical asset.
LOCATION: 2525

Buffett warned that when there is trouble, everything correlates. Thus, in managing catastrophic losses, one must think through the ripple effects.
LOCATION: 2544

He doubted that any other insurance company considers risk more rigorously than Berkshire.
LOCATION: 2552

Munger concluded that such Ponzi effects in society are very important and yet are
LOCATION: 2571

studied very little.(81)
LOCATION: 2572

CEOs with big egos making precise predictions are kidding investors, themselves or both.
LOCATION: 2578

Buffett noted the best way to find great managers is to look at the record.
LOCATION: 2617

Buffett referenced an old study that found the top correlation of great managers to be the age at which managers started their first businesses.
LOCATION: 2620

Buffett sees the market in a zone of valuation where he is neither a buyer nor a seller.
LOCATION: 2647

Key points include that it is the first business Berkshire has purchased outside the U.S., that the purchase increases the amount Berkshire will earn in foreign currencies and that the management is terrific.
LOCATION: 2674

If one guy received a bonus of $2 million and the next guy got $2.1 million, the first guy would be miserable for the next year. So it is envy, not greed, that is the dominant sin among investment bankers.
LOCATION: 2689

Buffett opined that envy is the least fun of the seven deadly sins because it leaves you feeling awful.
LOCATION: 2691

Envious CEOs use it as a shopping list for seeking pay raises.
LOCATION: 2695

According to Buffett, the job of the board is to 1) get the right CEO, 2) keep the CEO from overreaching and 3) exercise independent judgment on acquisitions.
LOCATION: 2713

“You don’t seem smart enough to be doing so much better than everyone else.” The key is knowing the edge of one’s circle of competence.
LOCATION: 2723

Buffett noted that, as a general rule, he ignores what is hot.
LOCATION: 2726

“How can you gain a significant competitive advantage?”
LOCATION: 2729

Concentrate in your best one or two ideas.
LOCATION: 2813

The key is to follow logic rather than emotion.
LOCATION: 2816

Buffett reminisced that he undertook a similar process in 1969 when he closed the Buffett Partnership and had to recommend to his investors where they should put 100% of their money. He chose Charlie Munger, Sandy Gottesman and Bill Ruane.
LOCATION: 2856

“It’s brains that make an area of opportunity.”
LOCATION: 2862

Buffett noted that he and Charlie have seen guys go broke or close to it because 99 of 100 of their decisions were good, but the 100th did them in.(89)
LOCATION: 2865

As one example of what can happen under forced sales, Buffett reviewed October 19, 1987: The infamous Black Monday when the Dow Jones Average dropped 23% in a single day.
LOCATION: 2871

You can have the same thing today because you have fund operators with billions of dollars – in aggregate, trillions of dollars – who will all respond to the same stimulus. It’s a crowded trade, but they don’t know it. And it’s not formal. They will sell for the same reasons. Someday, you will get a very chaotic situation.
LOCATION: 2876

One element contributing to the crowded trade risk is the rise of what Buffett calls “the electronic herd.”
LOCATION: 2890

More likely, he believes, would be an exogenous event to shock the system. That, in turn, could cause a huge widening of credit spreads and a cheapening of equities. That would be good for Berkshire because it has the money to take advantage of such an event.
LOCATION: 2899

He mentioned trying to buy a bank in Chicago 30 or 40 years ago, and the only people willing to lend to Berkshire were in Kuwait and would only lend in dinars. Now that was a credit contraction!
LOCATION: 2902

“History doesn’t repeat itself, but it rhymes. We’ll have something that rhymes.”
LOCATION: 2908

Buffett said he doesn’t buy businesses with much thought of world trends, but he does think about whether businesses are subject to foreign competition, have high labor content and/or have products that can be shipped in.
LOCATION: 2921

Buffett asserted the larger problem is having the wrong manager rather than the wrong compensation system.
LOCATION: 2940

It’s an enormously difficult thing to run a big company, so the greater sin is having the wrong person.
LOCATION: 2941

what really drives the compensation insanity is envy, not greed.
LOCATION: 2943

Buffett’s view is that the most important job of the board is to pick the right CEO.
LOCATION: 2948

Buffett added that the bust in South Korea produced some of the cheapest stock prices he’s ever seen.
LOCATION: 2976

having a high return on capital for a long period of time, where he thinks management will treat shareholders right.
LOCATION: 3006

You have to apply lots of models. So it takes time to get good at it. You don’t become a great investor rapidly any more than you become a bone-tumor specialist quickly.
LOCATION: 3010

almost all in the “too hard”
LOCATION: 3012

Let’s say you want to buy a farm, and you calculate that you can make $70/acre as the owner. How much will you pay for that farm? You might decide you wanted a 7% return, so you’d pay $1000/acre. If it’s for sale at $800/acre, you buy, but if it’s for sale for $1200/acre, you don’t. You wouldn’t base this decision on what you saw on TV or what a friend said. You would do your own homework. It’s the same with stocks.
LOCATION: 3014

Buffett emphasized that the ability to generate cash and reinvest is critical.
LOCATION: 3019

Buffett also noted that with evaluating oil and gas managers, he believes the key variable should be finding costs.
LOCATION: 3025

Buffett said a large part of his success has come from knowing how to recognize and step over one-foot bars and to recognize and avoid the seven-foot bars.
LOCATION: 3027

Buffett agreed that he is big on reading everything in sight and recommended good investors should read everything they can.
LOCATION: 3030

Fill your mind with competing ideas, and see what makes sense to you.
LOCATION: 3032

Rather than a defined road map, what’s called for is a reservoir of thinking and experience built by looking at markets in different places, different securities, etc.
LOCATION: 3038

At age 19, Buffett read The Intelligent Investor. He shared that at age 76, he’s still running through the same thought processes he learned from the book at age 19.
LOCATION: 3044

He claimed that his best ideas haven’t done better than others’ best ideas, but he’s lost less on his worst ideas.
LOCATION: 3047

Buffett begs to differ, asserting volatility does not measure risk. Beta is nice and mathematical, but it’s wrong.
LOCATION: 3050

Buffett believes that real risk comes from the nature of certain kinds of businesses, by the simple economics of the business and from not knowing what you’re doing. If you understand the economics and you know the people, then you’re not taking much risk.
LOCATION: 3056

“At least 50% of what is taught is twaddle, but these people have very high IQs. We recognized early on that very smart people do very dumb things, and we wanted to know why and who so we could avoid them.”
LOCATION: 3061

He said that he read the book when he was young and that the book taught him to under-spend his income and invest the difference.
LOCATION: 3082

He got the idea to add a mental compound interest as well. So he decided he would sell himself the best hour of the day to improving his own mind, and the world could buy the rest of his time.
LOCATION: 3084

The Intelligent Investor by Benjamin Graham (especially chapters 8 and 20),
LOCATION: 3102

“Teach (1) How to Value a Business, and (2) How to Think about Market Fluctuations – that the market is there to serve you, not influence you.”
LOCATION: 3107

If you were buying a farm, for example, you would look at the farm’s production over time versus the purchase price. You would not be trading farms based on short-term swings in agricultural prices.
LOCATION: 3113

Buffett: “He’s been practicing for months.”
LOCATION: 3115

He simply finds decades-long records of excellent performance. Then he seeks to retain them in a way that maintains their enthusiasm for the work.
LOCATION: 3126

Buffett asks whether the manager loves the money or loves the business. If they love the business, they’ll be a good fit for Berkshire. In sum, Buffett looks for .400 hitters that can work for decades. He joked that Mrs. B (founder of Nebraska Furniture Mart) left at age 103 and died the next year. He hopes that’s a lesson for his managers.
LOCATION: 3128

He suggests the “newspaper” standard: behave as if your actions will be on the front page of the local newspaper. Berkshire has no budgets or earning goals, which eliminates some of the perverse pressures that infect most other large companies.(99)
LOCATION: 3135

Munger shared that once, when he was asked what was Berkshire’s single best investment, he answered, “The fee for the corporate recruiter that brought us Ajit Jain.”
LOCATION: 3176

Munger and Buffett were in complete agreement about the benefits for the professional investor of loading up on your best ideas.
LOCATION: 3185

Non-diversification is the key.
LOCATION: 3192

What you need is a CEO with risk aversion in his DNA and the ability to resist employees who want to copy others to make money.
LOCATION: 3209

Buffett concluded that when you combine “too big to manage” with a government that deems them “too big to fail,” you get interesting outcomes.
LOCATION: 3216

He asserted that the accounting failed us and that accounting should be more like engineering.(101)
LOCATION: 3224

Buffett noted that it’s important to think about risks, including those that have never happened before.
LOCATION: 3231

You cannot farm-out risk management. Buffett willingly accepts lower returns for being able to sleep well, whatever may come.(102)
LOCATION: 3244

Buffett allowed that accounting for asset values is a tough thing, though he still strongly favors fair value versus cost.
LOCATION: 3247

valuing things like these CDOs at a 10 cent market price versus the cost of 100 cents, helps to keep management a little more honest.
LOCATION: 3255

“If we had just banned the phrase ‘this a financial innovation that reduces risk,’ we would have prevented a lot of trouble.”
LOCATION: 3258

What Munger did believe was bizarre was that CDS contract holders actually have a perverse incentive: they make money when corporations fail. So there could be manipulation to create corporate failures to collect on contracts.
LOCATION: 3267

Munger asserted that Berkshire has lower due diligence expense than any other large corporation. And they have less trouble than any other large corporation.
LOCATION: 3272

The folks at Mars knew that at Berkshire, a deal’s a deal, and the check will clear.
LOCATION: 3276

branded food companies and recently took a more than 8% stake in Kraft Foods.
LOCATION: 3278

Buffett observed that big food companies are good businesses. They earn good returns on tangible assets.
LOCATION: 3279

Coke now provides 1.5 billion servings a day worldwide. Since 1886, Coke has been delivering “happiness” and “refreshing” associations. These associations get implanted in people’s minds.
LOCATION: 3281

Good branded products are often a good investment.
LOCATION: 3283

Buffett allowed that one of their success secrets has been to focus only on those things that they figure out.
LOCATION: 3284

Buffett noted that the size of a bank means little to him. What really counts is the culture.
LOCATION: 3297

He wants a bank CEO who has risk controls in his DNA.
LOCATION: 3298

smaller banks are probably a good place to prospect for investment value.
LOCATION: 3301

He noted that the economic value of the United States has been increasing for decades even without a high savings rate. With a per capita GDP of $47,000, we’re so rich we may not need to save as much.
LOCATION: 3314

Buffett noted it has been better to retain the cash at Berkshire, where it can automatically compound. If you need cash, you can sell stock and pay capital gains tax at a lower rate than a dividend would be taxed.
LOCATION: 3319

In aggregate, he believes pharma is doing something enormously important, and overall, the group should have decent profits. A group approach should provide a reasonable result over five years.
LOCATION: 3334

Seriously, he noted the importance of a good mental attitude, to love what you do and to do it with other people who love what they do.
LOCATION: 3340

He also noted that getting the right spouse is essential.
LOCATION: 3347

He told the story of the man who spent 20 years looking for the perfect woman before he finally found her. Unfortunately, she was looking for the perfect man.
LOCATION: 3347

He’s very glad he did it, noting that effective communication is under taught, and recommended that many could benefit by forcing themselves to learn public speaking at an early age.(104)
LOCATION: 3353

As he has counseled on numerous occasions, Buffett suggested the best investment one can make is in oneself.
LOCATION: 3356

Buffett admitted that the focus has been on the mind at Berkshire. He and Charlie didn’t bother to work too hard on the body.
LOCATION: 3361

Munger also suggested that it is very important to learn how to avoid being manipulated by lenders and vendors.
LOCATION: 3362

He strongly recommended Robert Cialdini’s book, Influence, for the task. He also recommended Cialdini’s newest book, Yes, noting that Cialdini is the rare social psychologist who can connect the world of theory and daily life.
LOCATION: 3363

Buffett concluded that if you read 20 books on a subject you are interested in, you are bound to learn a lot.
LOCATION: 3369

We note also that preferred dividends are tax-preferenced for corporations, so in the case of Goldman and GE, that 10% preferred dividend is equal to nearly a 14% interest coupon on an after-tax basis to Berkshire.(106)
LOCATION: 3409

Munger chimed in with an anecdote about going to Vegas for his honeymoon back in 1952 at the Flamingo. There, he saw very well-dressed people who had traveled for miles to do something dumb with negative probabilities, and he thought to himself, “What a world of opportunity!”
LOCATION: 3422

In particular, Wells Fargo has the lowest cost deposit base, making it the low-cost producer in the business.
LOCATION: 3432

he said that “if I had to put all my net worth in one stock, I’d buy Wells Fargo.”
LOCATION: 3436

“A bird in the
LOCATION: 3443

hand is worth two in the bush.” That’s really it.
LOCATION: 3443

Thus, a $20 trillion asset class, housing, out of the nation’s $50 trillion in assets, became increasingly levered up. And the blame is shared by all players.
LOCATION: 3451

Furthermore, they don’t want a manager at Berkshire that thinks he can jump into cash and back into the market. They have excluded those types.(107)
LOCATION: 3478

Buffett loves to teach college students.
LOCATION: 3481

His two courses, if he were to run a business school, would be 1) How to Value a Business, and 2) How to Think About Markets. That would be it.
LOCATION: 3482

In thinking about markets, it is important to remember that markets are there to serve you, not instruct you. The key here is emotional stability, to have an inner peace about your decisions. It is important to think for yourself and to make good decisions over time.(108)
LOCATION: 3485

Buffett imagined himself an economics teacher, professing the efficient market hypothesis: “Everything is priced properly.” And mused, “What do you do for the rest of the hour?” And this is the stuff of Nobel Prizes!
LOCATION: 3493

Buffett noted that the authority here goes with the person, not the position.
LOCATION: 3498

According to Munger, what matters at Berkshire is that the property and casualty business is probably the best in the world, the utility subsidiary is the best, ISCAR is the best at what it does, etc.
LOCATION: 3511

Mark Holowesko, director of research at the Templeton Group, says much the same thing.
LOCATION: 6210

In a similar vein, John Templeton told us that his investment results improved when he moved to the Bahamas, where the Wall Street Journal arrived three days late.
LOCATION: 6220

As Sir John Templeton did by moving to the Bahamas and as Buffett has done by staying in Omaha.
LOCATION: 6259

“Be rich in the fewness of your wants.”
LOCATION: 6283

From past annuals, we believe those variables would be growth in policy holders (units) and the combined ratio (profitability).
LOCATION: 6284
