Rich Dad Poor Dad: What The Rich Teach Their Kids About Money - That The Poor And Middle Class Do Not!
Robert T. Kiyosaki

The moment you see one opportunity, you’ll see them for the rest of your life. The moment you do that, I’ll teach you something else. Learn this, and you’ll avoid one of life’s biggest traps.
LOCATION: 746

I have heard it called many things; guts, chutzpah, balls, audacity, bravado, cunning, daring, tenacity, and brilliance.
LOCATION: 1445

Yet as a teacher, I recognized that it was excessive fear and self-doubt that were the greatest detractors of personal genius.
LOCATION: 1450

Today, wealth is in information. And the person who has the most
LOCATION: 1468

timely information owns the wealth.
LOCATION: 1468

The single most powerful asset we all have is our mind.
LOCATION: 1550

If it is trained well, it can create enormous wealth seemingly instantaneously.
LOCATION: 1550

“Leadership is what you need to learn next,” he said. “If you’re not a good leader, you’ll get shot in the back, just like they do in business.”
LOCATION: 1881

Job is an acronym for “Just Over Broke.”
LOCATION: 1893

“Workers work hard enough to not be fired, and owners pay just enough so that workers won’t quit.”
LOCATION: 1899

Jerry Maguire
LOCATION: 1907

Tom Cruise is leaving the firm. He has just been fired, and he is asking the entire company, “Who wants to come with me?”
LOCATION: 1909

Life is much like going to the gym. The most painful part is deciding to go.
LOCATION: 1940

The most important specialized skills are sales and marketing.
LOCATION: 1990

I know of no other skills to be more important than selling and marketing.
LOCATION: 2001

“What I like best is the Texas attitude. They’re proud when they win, and they brag when they lose. Texans have a saying, ‘If you’re going to go broke, go big.’ You don’t want to admit you went broke over a duplex.”
LOCATION: 2055

“Everyone wants to go to heaven, but no one wants to die.”
LOCATION: 2064

He just knew who he was and how he would take a loss. He would take a loss and make it a win.
LOCATION: 2076

“I always tried to turn every disaster into an opportunity.”
LOCATION: 2087

The main reason that over 90 percent of the American public struggles financially is because they play not to lose. They don’t play to win.
LOCATION: 2097

If you have little money and you want to be rich, you must first be focused, not balanced.
LOCATION: 2103

If you have any desire to be rich, you must focus. Do not do what poor and middle-class people do: put their few eggs in many baskets. Put a lot of your eggs in a few baskets and FOCUS: Follow One Course Until Successful.
LOCATION: 2108

It often takes great courage to not let rumors and talk of doom and gloom affect your doubts and fears.
LOCATION: 2141

But a savvy investor knows that the seemingly worst of times is actually the best of times to make money.
LOCATION: 2141

Two weeks later, the agent called to say that our friend had backed out. I called immediately to find out why. All he said was that he talked to his neighbor, and his neighbor told him it was a bad deal. He was paying too much. I asked Richard if his neighbor was an investor. Richard said he was not. When I asked why he listened to him, Richard got defensive and simply said he wanted to keep looking.
LOCATION: 2148

My point is that it’s those doubts and cynicism that keep most people poor and playing it safe. The real world is simply waiting for you to get rich. Only a person’s doubts keep them poor. As I said, getting out of the Rat Race is technically easy. It doesn’t take much education, but those doubts are cripplers for most people.
LOCATION: 2162

“Cynics criticize, and winners analyze”
LOCATION: 2165

Yet every time I mention real estate as a vehicle, I often hear, “I don’t want to fix toilets.” That’s what Peter Lynch calls noise. That’s what my rich dad would say is the cynic talking, someone who criticizes and does not analyze, someone who lets their doubts and fears close their mind instead of open their eyes.
LOCATION: 2168

I often hear people say, “I don’t want to lose money.” Well, what makes them think I or anyone else likes losing money? They don’t make money because they choose to not lose money. Instead of analyzing, they close their minds to another powerful investment vehicle, the stock market.
LOCATION: 2182

He spends long hours at the office and brings work home on weekends. One day he comes home to an empty house. His wife has left with the kids. He knew he and his wife had problems, but rather than work to make the relationship strong, he stayed busy at work.
LOCATION: 2206

“How can I afford it?” opened up the brain and forced it to think and search for answers.
LOCATION: 2230

Our lives are a reflection of our habits more than our education.
LOCATION: 2260

I remember asking my rich dad about the habits of the rich. Instead of answering me outright, he wanted me to learn through example, as usual.
LOCATION: 2266

While in Peru, I asked a gold miner of 45 years how he was so confident about finding a gold mine. He replied, “There is gold everywhere. Most people are not trained to see it.”
LOCATION: 2326

the only real asset you have is your mind,
LOCATION: 2368

WARNING: Don’t listen to poor or frightened people. I have such friends, and while I love them dearly, they are the Chicken Littles of life. To them, when it comes to money, especially investments, it’s always, “The sky is falling! The sky is falling!”
LOCATION: 2405

I would say that one of the hardest things about wealth-building is to be true to yourself and to be willing to not go along with the crowd.
LOCATION: 2415
