The Psychology of Money: Timeless lessons on wealth, greed, and happiness
Morgan Housel

The challenge for us is that no amount of studying or open-mindedness can genuinely recreate the power of fear and uncertainty.
LOCATION: 149

Take a simple example: lottery tickets. Americans spend more on them than movies, video games, music, sporting events, and books combined.
LOCATION: 209

“If there
LOCATION: 284

had been no Lakeside, there would have been no Microsoft,” he told the
LOCATION: 284

Therefore, focus less on specific individuals and case studies and more on broad patterns.
LOCATION: 385

Happiness, as it’s said, is just results minus expectations.
LOCATION: 473

“Having an ‘edge’ and surviving are two different things: the first requires the second. You need to avoid ruin. At all costs.”
LOCATION: 675

More than I want big returns, I want to be financially unbreakable. And if I’m unbreakable I actually think I’ll get the biggest returns, because I’ll be able to stick around long enough for compounding to work wonders.
LOCATION: 678

The great art dealers operated like index funds. They bought everything they could. And they bought it in portfolios, not individual pieces they happened to like.
LOCATION: 749

Napoleon’s definition of a military genius was, “The man who can do the average thing when all those around him are going crazy.”
LOCATION: 809

How you behaved as an investor during a few months in late 2008 and early 2009 will likely have more impact on your lifetime returns than everything you did from 2000 to 2008.
LOCATION: 826

“It’s not whether you’re right or wrong that’s important,” George Soros once said, “but how much money you make when you’re right and how much you lose when you’re wrong.”
LOCATION: 869

People like to feel like they’re in control—in the drivers’ seat. When we try to get them to do something, they feel disempowered. Rather than feeling like they made the choice, they feel like we made it for them. So they say no or do something else, even when they might have originally been happy to go along.
LOCATION: 908

controlling your time is such a key happiness influencer,
LOCATION: 960

Controlling your time is the highest dividend money pays.
LOCATION: 972

The danger here is that I think most people, deep down, want to be wealthy. They want
LOCATION: 1039

freedom and flexibility, which is what financial assets not yet spent can give you.
LOCATION: 1039

And since you can build wealth without a high income, but have no chance of building wealth without a high savings rate, it’s clear which one matters more.
LOCATION: 1076

“the purpose of the margin of safety is to render the forecast unnecessary.”
LOCATION: 1421

Having a gap between what you can technically endure versus what’s emotionally possible is an overlooked version of room for error.
LOCATION: 1456

The ability to do what you want, when you want, for as long as you want, has an infinite ROI.
LOCATION: 1486

But many of us evolve so much over a lifetime that we don’t want to keep doing the same thing for decades on end.
LOCATION: 1569

“Every job looks easy when you’re not the one doing it.”
LOCATION: 1615
