The Outsiders: Eight Unconventional CEOs and Their Radically Rational Blueprint for Success
William Thorndike

In assessing performance, what matters isn’t the absolute rate of return but the return relative to peers and the market.
LOCATION: 64

the compound annual return to shareholders during his or her tenure and the return over the same period for peer companies and for the broader market
LOCATION: 66

companies competing within an industry are usually dealt similar hands, and the long-term differences between them, therefore, are more a factor of managerial ability than external forces.
LOCATION: 75

mysterious field of capital allocation—the process of deciding how to deploy the firm’s resources to earn the best possible return for shareholders.
LOCATION: 104

CEOs need to do two things well to be successful: run their operations efficiently and deploy the cash generated by those operations.
LOCATION: 107

Basically, CEOs have five essential choices for deploying capital—investing in existing operations, acquiring other businesses, issuing dividends, paying down debt, or repurchasing stock—and three alternatives for raising it—tapping
LOCATION: 110

internal cash flow, issuing debt, or raising equity.
LOCATION: 111

and yet despite its importance, there are no courses on capital allocation at the top business schools.
LOCATION: 116

To stretch the point, it’s as if the final step for a highly talented musician was not to perform at Carnegie Hall, but instead, to be named Chairman of the Federal Reserve.1
LOCATION: 121

It is impossible to produce superior performance unless you do something different. —John Templeton
LOCATION: 196

Foxes, however, also have many attractive qualities, including an ability to make connections across fields and to innovate, and the CEOs in this book were definite foxes.
LOCATION: 249

discovery of a mysterious force, the corporate equivalent of teenage peer pressure, that impelled CEOs to imitate the actions of their peers.
LOCATION: 253

The business world has traditionally divided itself into two basic camps: those who run companies and those who invest in them.
LOCATION: 263

less emphasis placed on charismatic leadership and more on careful deployment of firm resources.
LOCATION: 265

Over the long term, this systematic, methodical blend of low buying and high selling produced exceptional returns for shareholders.
LOCATION: 270

collective records show the enormous power of fresh eyes.
LOCATION: 287

This freshness of perspective is an age-old catalyst for innovation across many fields.
LOCATION: 287

were almost invariably made by newcomers and the very young
LOCATION: 288

Malcolm Gladwell presents a rule of thumb that expertise across a wide variety of fields requires ten thousand hours of practice.
LOCATION: 294

Gladwell’s rule is a guide to achieving mastery, which is not necessarily the same thing as innovation.
LOCATION: 297

for Warren Buffett, it was the generation and deployment of insurance float.
LOCATION: 315

core of their shared worldview was the belief that the primary goal for any CEO was to optimize long-term value per share, not organizational growth.
LOCATION: 315

Growth, it turns out, often doesn’t correlate with maximizing shareholder value.
LOCATION: 321

“After we acquired a number of businesses, we
LOCATION: 323

reflected on business. Our conclusion was that the key was cash flow. . . .
LOCATION: 323

Charlie Munger, calls “a prosperity-blinded indifference to unnecessary costs.”1
LOCATION: 342

“We just kept opportunistically buying assets, intelligently leveraging the company, improving operations and then we’d
LOCATION: 354

One of the major themes in this book is resource allocation.
LOCATION: 444

“hire the best people you can and leave them alone.”
LOCATION: 458

With no prior broadcasting experience themselves before joining Capital Cities, Murphy and Burke shared a clear preference for intelligence, ability, and drive over direct industry experience.
LOCATION: 489

Murphy was a master at prospecting for deals. He was known for his sense of humor and for his
LOCATION: 531

honesty and integrity.
LOCATION: 531

If he thought their proposal was high, he would counter with his best price, and if the seller rejected his offer, Murphy would walk away.
LOCATION: 546

I change
LOCATION: 624

my mind when the facts change. What do you do?
LOCATION: 624

Teledyne, however, alone among 1960s-era conglomerates, steadfastly refused to pay dividends, believing them to be tax inefficient (dividends are taxed twice—once at the corporate level and again at the individual level).
LOCATION: 630

Great investors (and capital allocators) must be able to both sell high and buy low;
LOCATION: 752

“I don’t reserve any day-to-day responsibilities for myself, so I don’t get into any particular rut. I do not define my job in any rigid terms but in terms of having the freedom to do whatever seems to be in the best interests of the company at any time.”9
LOCATION: 815

“My only plan is to keep coming to work. . . . I like to steer the boat each day rather than plan ahead way into the future.”
LOCATION: 821

The CEO as investor. Both Buffett and Singleton designed organizations that allowed them to focus on capital allocation, not operations.
LOCATION: 861

Both viewed themselves primarily as investors, not managers.
LOCATION: 862

Both provided informative annual reports with detailed business unit information.
LOCATION: 869

invest insurance company “float” to create shareholder value, and for both companies, insurance was the largest and most important business.
LOCATION: 876

“Cash return on capital became the key metric within the company and was always on our minds.”
LOCATION: 968

Most of the CEOs in this book avoided detailed strategic plans, preferring to stay flexible and opportunistic.
LOCATION: 991

as a group, they were, at their core, rational and pragmatic, agnostic and clear-eyed.
LOCATION: 999
