Understanding Michael Porter: The Essential Guide to Competition and Strategy
Joan Magretta

“The essence of strategy,” Porter often says, “is choosing what not to do.”
LOCATION: 67

Only by competing to be unique can an organization achieve sustained, superior performance.
LOCATION: 164

The key to competitive success—for businesses and nonprofits alike—lies in an organization’s ability to create unique value. Porter’s prescription: aim to be unique, not best. Creating value, not beating rivals, is at the heart of competition.
LOCATION: 236

Porter starts with the industry because competing to be unique is a choice made against a specific and relevant set of rivals, and because the structure of the industry determines how the value it creates is shared.
LOCATION: 240

Competition focuses more on meeting customer needs than on demolishing rivals.
LOCATION: 296

In the vast majority of businesses, there is simply no such thing as “the best.” Think about it for a moment. Is there a best car? A best hamburger? A best mobile phone?
LOCATION: 306

This, says Porter, is competitive convergence. Over time, rivals begin to look alike as one difference after another erodes.
LOCATION: 334

When all else fails and pressure on prices has destroyed an industry’s profitability, often the remedy is to limit competition through consolidation.
LOCATION: 339

Another name for the same idea is “winner takes all.” This model holds that companies win by getting bigger and, ultimately, by dominating their industries.
LOCATION: 359

Instead of competing to be the best, companies can—and should—compete to be unique.
LOCATION: 404

But customers who switch clearly don’t see it that way—and value is ultimately defined by customers.
LOCATION: 416

Competing to be unique is unlike warfare in that one company’s success does not require its rivals to fail.
LOCATION: 423

Competing to be the best feeds on imitation. Competing to be unique thrives on innovation.
LOCATION: 430

Instead, competition is multidimensional, and strategy is about making choices along many dimensions, not just one.
LOCATION: 452

The real point of competition is not to beat your rivals. It’s to earn profits.
LOCATION: 477

Second, industry structure determines profitability—not, as many people think, whether the industry is high growth or low, high tech or low, regulated or not, manufacturing or service. Structure trumps these other, more intuitive, categories.
LOCATION: 493

(A reminder: Industry structure is always analyzed from the perspective of companies already in the industry. Because potential entrants must overcome entry barriers, this explains why an industry can be “attractive” to incumbents while at the same time not attracting new competitors.)
LOCATION: 523

If the industry creates a lot of value, then structure becomes critical in understanding who gets to capture it.
LOCATION: 534

This imbalance in bargaining power between small, fragmented buyers and a few large sellers is a defining element of the structure of the Mexican cement industry. Market power allows the producers to charge higher prices and earn higher returns.
LOCATION: 553

When you assess buyer power, the channels through which products are delivered can be as important as the end users. This is especially true when the channel influences the purchase decisions of the end-user customers.
LOCATION: 559

Price competition, Porter warns, is the most damaging form of rivalry.
LOCATION: 676

The five forces framework applies in all industries for the simple reason that it encompasses relationships fundamental to all commerce.
LOCATION: 690

It matters that you grasp the deeper point: there are a limited number of structural forces at work in every industry that systematically impact profitability in a predictable direction.
LOCATION: 697

In what must be one of the most honest job titles I’ve ever seen, the company’s chief buyer is called “vice president for international purchase leverage.”
LOCATION: 802
