How to Win Friends and Influence People
Carnegie, Dale,

“Don’t be afraid of enemies who attack you. Be afraid of the friends who flatter you.”
LOCATION: 715

“Flattery is telling the other
LOCATION: 720

person precisely what he thinks about himself.”
LOCATION: 720

Honest appreciation got results where criticism and ridicule failed.
LOCATION: 741

Give honest and sincere appreciation.
LOCATION: 753

“Action springs out of what we fundamentally desire…and the best piece of advice which can be given to would-be persuaders, whether in business, in the home, in the school, in politics, is: First, arouse in the other person an eager want. He who can do this has the whole world with him. He who cannot walks a lonely way.”
LOCATION: 784

the only way to influence people is to talk in terms of what the other person wants.
LOCATION: 788

‘I’m waiting to go to kindergarten. I don’t want to be late.’ The enthusiasm of our entire family had aroused in Tim an eager want that no amount of discussion or threat could have possibly accomplished.”
LOCATION: 805

“How can I make this person want to do it?”
LOCATION: 807

“If there is any one secret of success,” said Henry Ford, “it lies in
LOCATION: 837

the ability to get the other person’s point of view and see things from that person’s angle as well as from your own.”
LOCATION: 838

But a dog makes his living by giving you nothing but love.
LOCATION: 1069

Alfred Adler, the famous Viennese psychologist, wrote a book entitled What Life Should Mean to You. In that book he says: “It is the individual who is not interested in his fellow men who has the greatest difficulties in life and provides the greatest injury to others. It is from among such individuals that all human failures spring.”
LOCATION: 1088

You must have a good time meeting people if you expect them to have a good time meeting you.
LOCATION: 1297

Try to fix firmly in your mind what you would like to do; and then, without veering off direction, you will move straight to the goal.
LOCATION: 1350

Because he is a gentleman. He saw you were interested in boats, and he talked about the things he knew would interest and please you. He made himself agreeable.’”
LOCATION: 1679

Why prove to a man he is wrong? Is that going to make him like you? Why not let him save his face? He didn’t ask for your opinion. He didn’t want it. Why argue with him? Always avoid the acute angle.” The man who said that taught me a lesson I’ll never forget. I not only had made the storyteller uncomfortable, but had put my friend in an embarrassing situation. How much better it would have been had I not become argumentative.
LOCATION: 1964

I have come to the conclusion that there is only one way under high heaven to get the best of an argument—and that is to avoid it.
LOCATION: 1971

You can’t win an argument. You can’t because if you lose it, you lose it; and if you win it, you lose it.
LOCATION: 1974

A man convinced against his will Is of the same opinion still.
LOCATION: 1978

If you argue and rankle and contradict, you may achieve a victory sometimes; but it will be an empty victory because you will never get your opponent’s good will.
LOCATION: 1998

If you are going to prove anything, don’t let anybody know it. Do it so subtly, so adroitly, that no one will feel that you are doing it.
LOCATION: 2088

Socrates said repeatedly to his followers in Athens:   One thing only I know, and that is that I know nothing.
LOCATION: 2097

Nobody in the heavens above or on earth beneath or in the waters under the earth will ever object to your saying: “I may be wrong. Let’s examine the facts.”
LOCATION: 2104

You will never get into trouble by admitting that you may be wrong.
LOCATION: 2114

Benjamin Franklin’s autobiography—one
LOCATION: 2162
