The Warren Buffett Portfolio: Mastering the Power of the Focus Investment Strategy
Robert G. Hagstrom

The Kelly model is represented in a formula that uses probability to calculate optimization-in
LOCATION: 143

According to that theory, remember, the primary benefit of a broadly diversified portfolio is to mitigate the price volatility of the individual stocks.
LOCATION: 334

At Ruane, Cuniff & Company, they begin with the idea of selecting the best possible stocks and then let the portfolio form around those selections.
LOCATION: 470

This double-barreled foolishness-this price-based, short-term mentality-is a flawed way of thinking, and it shows up at every level in our business.
LOCATION: 602

He noted that, with the exception of Buffett himself, many of the people Buffett described as "Superinvestors"-undeniably skilled, undeniably successful-faced periods of short-term underperformance.
LOCATION: 625

"For an ordinary individual, the best thing you already have should be your measuring stick."
LOCATION: 707

To outperform the S&P 500 over time-to raise that benchmark-we have to assemble and manage a portfolio of companies whose economics are superior to the average weighted economics of the index.
LOCATION: 715

"The job of manager," Murphy once said, "is not to find ways to make the train longer but to find ways to make it run faster."
LOCATION: 718

"interest-free loan from the Treasury."
LOCATION: 757

One possible approach is a passive, low-turnover index fund. Another is a focus portfolio.
LOCATION: 774

Buffett does not adjust the discount rate for uncertainty. If one investment appears riskier than another, he keeps the discount rate constant and, instead, adjusts the purchase price.
LOCATION: 809

Buffett tells us that, in a low-interest-rate environment, he adjusts the discount rate upward. When bond yields dipped below 7 percent, Buffett adjusted his discount rate up to 10 percent. If interest rates work themselves higher over time, he has successfully matched his discount rate to the long-term rate. If they do not, he has increased his margin of safety by three additional points.
LOCATION: 828

The value of a stock, Buffett has explained on several occasions, is the net cash flows of the investment that occur over the life of the investment, discounted at the appropriate interest rate. Growth, he points out, is simply a part of the calculation that pertains to the cash flow. "In our opinion," says Buffett, "the two approaches [value and growth] are joined at the hip."8
LOCATION: 898

In Buffett's consumerproducts world, brand awareness, pricing power, and share of mind are all factors included in a franchise.
LOCATION: 1004

Miller points out that Buffett and Peter Lynch have said that learning is simply a matter of observing what is going on around you.
LOCATION: 1013

other models and metaphors, thinking how they might apply to investing.
LOCATION: 1021

try to understand the role of psychology in investing.
LOCATION: 1021

I would tell them to work hard, but not too hard."
LOCATION: 1029

It is very often the people who make fewer but bigger decisions that tend to do better than those who are making a lot of decisions in the name of being busy."
LOCATION: 1031

Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman,
LOCATION: 1049

The Fermat/Pascal system is dramatically consonant with the way the world works. And it's fundamental truth. So you simply
LOCATION: 1058

"Essays Towards Solving A Problem In The Doctrine Of Chances"
LOCATION: 1077

"Take the probability of loss times the amount of possible loss from the probability of gain times the amount of possible gain. That is what we're trying to do," says Buffett. "It's imperfect, but that's what it is all about."lo
LOCATION: 1119

Nonetheless, the underlying concept-mathematically linking degree of probability to investment
LOCATION: 1201

size-carries important lessons for the focus investor.
LOCATION: 1201

"The Kelly system is for people who simply want to compound their capital and see it grow to very large numbers over time," says
LOCATION: 1223

"Charlie and I, however, are quite willing to accept relatively volatile results in exchange for better long-term earnings than we would otherwise have had.
LOCATION: 1255

In other words, we prefer the lumpy 15 percent to a smooth 12 percent.
LOCATION: 1257

"believes in the discipline of mastering the best that other people have figured out. I don't believe in just sitting down and trying to dream it all up yourself. Nobody's that smart."
LOCATION: 1935
