The Daily Stoic: THE PHENOMENAL WORLDWIDE BESTSELLER: 3 MILLION COPIES SOLD
Ryan Holiday and Stephen Hanselman

The Discipline of Perception (how we see and perceive the world around us) The Discipline of Action (the decisions and actions we take—and to what end) The Discipline of Will (how we deal with the things we cannot change, attain clear and convincing judgment, and come to a true understanding of our place
LOCATION: 117

in the world)
LOCATION: 119

A MORNING RITUAL
LOCATION: 431

Keep your own journal, whether it’s saved on a computer or in a little notebook.
LOCATION: 455

It doesn’t solve the problems that people without it seem to think it will.
LOCATION: 469

External things can’t fix internal issues.
LOCATION: 470

It’s because the things that matter to them are cheap.
LOCATION: 501

The more things we desire and the more we have to do to earn or attain those achievements, the less we actually enjoy our lives—and the less free we are.
LOCATION: 505

The nearer a man comes to a calm mind, the closer he is to strength.”
LOCATION: 595

Try to remember that when you find yourself getting mad. Anger is not impressive or tough—it’s a mistake. It’s
LOCATION: 599

All of these scenarios hold the same thing in common. As Epictetus says, it’s wanting something outside our control.
LOCATION: 625

FEAR IS A SELF-FULFILLING PROPHECY
LOCATION: 673

YOU DON’T HAVE TO HAVE AN OPINION
LOCATION: 698

There is that saying that absolute power corrupts absolutely.
LOCATION: 729

So it’s not so clear that power always corrupts. In fact, it looks like it comes down, in many ways, to the inner strength and self-awareness of individuals—what they value, what desires they keep in check, whether their understanding of fairness and justice can counteract the temptations of unlimited wealth and deference.
LOCATION: 733

I begin to speak only when I’m certain what I’ll say isn’t better left unsaid.’”
LOCATION: 874

Indifference is solid middle ground.
LOCATION: 947

Perhaps we could say that we begin our journey into philosophy when we become aware of the ability to analyze our own minds.
LOCATION: 984

How much more tolerant and understanding would you be today if you could see the actions of other people as attempts to do the right thing?
LOCATION: 1135

“You are not your job, you’re not how much money you have in the bank. You are not the car you drive. You’re not the contents of your wallet.”
LOCATION: 1190

That’s what the Stoics urge us to consider. Not how things appear, but what effort, activity, and choices they are a result of.
LOCATION: 1195

freedom isn’t secured by filling up on your heart’s desire but by removing your desire.”
LOCATION: 1295

There are two ways to be wealthy—to get everything you want or to want everything you have.
LOCATION: 1297

(Who watches the watchmen?)
LOCATION: 1306

The good things in life cost what they cost. The unnecessary things are not worth it at any price. The key is being aware of the difference.
LOCATION: 1323

An investor without discipline is not an investor—he’s a gambler.
LOCATION: 1371

If we ever do want to become wise, it comes from the questioning and from humility—not, as many would like to think, from certainty, mistrust, and arrogance.
LOCATION: 1468

that having a lot of money makes you wealthy. Or that because a lot of people believe something, it must be true.
LOCATION: 1483

“the first and greatest task of the philosopher is to test and separate appearances, and to act on nothing that is untested.”
LOCATION: 1484

are swinging back in the other direction.
LOCATION: 1493

Again, trust, but always verify.
LOCATION: 1501

“Every
LOCATION: 1521

man I meet is my master in some point, and in that I learn of him.”
LOCATION: 1521

Rumors and gossip are the taxes that come from acquiring a public persona.
LOCATION: 1576

On the other hand, the “good” that the Stoics advocate is simpler and more straightforward: wisdom, self-control, justice, courage.
LOCATION: 1646

“Einstein didn’t invent the theory of relativity while he was multitasking at the Swiss patent office.” It came after, when he really had time to focus and study.
LOCATION: 1656

You’ll never complete all your tasks if you allow yourself to be distracted with every tiny interruption. Your attention is one of your most critical resources. Don’t squander it!
LOCATION: 1660

“You have been formed of three parts—body, breath, and mind.
LOCATION: 1673

Of these, the first two are yours insofar as they are only in your care. The third alone is truly yours.”
LOCATION: 1674

Remember that if they’re single, other people must have dumped them at some point. There must be something wrong with them.
LOCATION: 1695

No one should be ashamed at changing his mind—that’s what the mind is for.
LOCATION: 1706

WANTS MAKE YOU A SERVANT
LOCATION: 1739

Remember: taking the money, wanting the money—proverbially or literally—makes you a servant to the people who have it.
LOCATION: 1746

A Stoic has no uniform and resembles no stereotype. They are not identifiable by look or by sight or by sound.
LOCATION: 1789

As Musonius Rufus put it, the justification for philosophy is when “one brings together sound teaching with sound conduct.”
LOCATION: 1810

Would I be better saying words or letting my actions and choices illustrate that knowledge for me?
LOCATION: 1812

The conspicuously wealthy earn and ultimately get what they want out of spending: their reputation. But what an empty one!
LOCATION: 1823

Not everyone. So who’s the more impressive?
LOCATION: 1826

“Let us also produce some bold act of our own—and join the ranks of the most emulated.”
LOCATION: 1881

There are immense costs of doing wrong, not only to society, but to the perpetrator. Look at the lives of most people who reject ethics and discipline, and the chaos and misery that so often follows.
LOCATION: 1903

Most rudeness, meanness, and cruelty are a mask for deep-seated weakness.
LOCATION: 1918

That’s what Epictetus means too. What kind of boxer are you if you leave because you get hit? That’s the nature of the sport! Is that going to stop you from continuing?
LOCATION: 2036

“I am a great believer in luck. The harder I work, the more of it I seem to have.”
LOCATION: 2071

Today, we say, “Luck is where hard work meets opportunity.” Or is it typically flipped?
LOCATION: 2072

Don’t spend much time thinking about what other people think. Think about what you think. Think instead about the results, about the impact, about whether it is the right thing to do.
LOCATION: 2098

The Stoics believed, above all else, that our job on this earth is to be a good human being.
LOCATION: 2154

Even in his own time, Seneca was criticized for preaching Stoic virtues while accumulating one of the largest fortunes in Rome.
LOCATION: 3308

There is no rule that says financial success must mean that you live beyond your means. Remember: humans can be happy with very little.
LOCATION: 3316

“a man’s wealth must be determined by the relation of his desires and expenditures
LOCATION: 3328

to his income. If he feels rich on $10 and has everything he desires, he really is rich.”
LOCATION: 3328

Specifically, he was learning indifference: an attitude of “let come what may”
LOCATION: 3371

Stoic philosophy is a lot like that. Some observations or exercises will touch one of your pressure points. It’s nothing personal. It’s supposed to hurt.
LOCATION: 3382

We are always preparing for what life might throw at us—and when it does, we’re ready and don’t stop until we’ve handled it.
LOCATION: 3396

“What does not kill me makes me stronger,” Nietzsche said.
LOCATION: 3409

But Stockdale persevered and did make it out. He quenched his desires and focused exclusively on what he did control: himself.
LOCATION: 3427

“Let me assert my firm belief that the only thing we have to fear is fear itself—nameless, unreasoning, unjustified terror which paralyzes needed efforts to convert retreat into advance.”
LOCATION: 3483

Overconfidence is a great weakness and a liability.
LOCATION: 3529

As Marcus Aurelius put it (repeatedly, in fact), “stuff cannot touch the soul.”
LOCATION: 3540

You’ve been granted a strong fortress. Don’t betray it.
LOCATION: 3543

Instead of ‘a way to not lose my child,’ try asking for ‘a way to lose my fear of it.’”
LOCATION: 3549

That is the kind of plant you are, displaying fruit too soon, and the winter will kill you.”
LOCATION: 3563

The seeds of Stoicism are long underground. Do the work required to nurture and tend to them.
LOCATION: 3568

There’s a saying: “God favors fools.”
LOCATION: 3578

On the other hand, the person who perseveres through difficulties, who keeps going when others quit, who makes it to their destination through hard work and honesty? That’s admirable, because their survival was the result of fortitude and resilience, not birthright or circumstance.
LOCATION: 3580

DEALING WITH HATERS
LOCATION: 3586

The point is not to have an iron will, but an adaptable will—a will that makes full use of reason
LOCATION: 3625

to clarify perception, impulse, and judgment to act effectively for the right purpose.
LOCATION: 3626

It’s not weak to change and adapt. Flexibility is its own kind of strength. In fact, this flexibility combined with strength is what will make us resilient and unstoppable.
LOCATION: 3627

NO PAIN, NO GAIN
LOCATION: 3657

That’s what goes into the most important skill of all: how to live.
LOCATION: 4104

“Crimes often return to their teacher.”
LOCATION: 4117

“Character is fate.”
LOCATION: 4151

As soon as you can attune your spirit to that idea, the easier and happier your life will be, because you will have given up the most potent addiction of all: control.
LOCATION: 4253

Benjamin Franklin observed that “in this world nothing can be said to be certain, except death and taxes,”
LOCATION: 4804

The mind is a muscle, and like the rest, it can be strained, overworked, even injured.
LOCATION: 4905

Our physical health is also worn down by over-commitment, a lack of rest, and bad habits.
LOCATION: 4906
